---
title: Social Sacrifice
tags:
  - relationships
  - sacrifice
---
This weekend, I did a little bit of stepping back and observing. I don't really know what exactly defines an epiphany, but I'm pretty sure I had one or four of those on Saturday night. Coming out of the weekend though, there are two distinct topics that I'm still thinking a lot about. I'll write about one now and will hopefully write about the other one later this week.

When we think about sacrifice, I think it's safe to say that we mostly see it as a bad thing, a negative thing. Sacrifice, in our minds, is one person experiencing suffering so that others can have an increase in happiness. But, this weekend, I realized that there is so much more to sacrifice. Every single day, we make sacrifices. In fact, human social interaction is completely dependent on sacrifices and we don't even realize it.

Let me explain this thought a little further and then use a couple of examples to hopefully get my point across. There are 7 billion people on this planet. That's 7 billion unique brains. 7 billion unique tastes in music. 7 billion unique tastes in food. 7 billion unique tastes in movies. 7 billion unique thought processes. 7 billion unique levels of intellect. And I could continue... The point is that everyone is different and is pursuing a slightly different life than every other person on this Earth. Everyone has different goals and wants to get different things out of different situations. With all of these differences, where does the unity come from? Sacrifices. Sacrifices aren't nearly as bad as we perceive them to be. Constantly, we scan the possible sacrifices that we can make and weigh the pros and cons. When you break it down, it's beautiful how much we think about others before we think about ourselves in order to make relationships work. A few examples:

- Group of friends searching for a place to eat. There is no way everyone truly wants to eat the exact same thing yet we usually find ourselves in a situation where everyone wants to eat "whatever everyone else wants". Everyone in the group is sacrificing their true desires for the group. In that moment, culinary desire is non-existent because it's the time spent together that truly matters. There are definitely times where you truly don't care where you eat but if you were by yourself, why would it suddenly be so clear where you were going to choose to eat?

- Friend calls you drunk and needs a ride home. Without hesitation, you grab your keys and go. You sacrifice whatever you are doing because your friend's safety is more important in that moment. Again, you are hardly even conscience of the sacrifice you are making here. Even if what you were doing was important, seeing your friend safe and listening to their stupid drunk jokes makes it all worth it. I guess there are angry drunks that would be an extremely conscience burden, but if it's a good friendship, the sacrifice would happen without question.

- Social events. There are two distinct personality types: introverts and extroverts. When it comes to social get-togethers, it's incredible to see friends come out of their comfort zone to hang out with their buddies. Introverts will sacrifice their comfort if the majority of their friends want to do something that introverts would usually shy away from. Extroverts will sacrifice their comfort if the majority of their friends want to do something extroverts would tend to opt out of. It's amazing that people so willingly sacrifice their comfort and in turn put themselves in a vulnerable place just to uphold social relationships. This is also the one I think we can all relate to most. How many times have you started quietly playing a board game thinking about how boring it was going to be or gone to a crowded place thinking about how overwhelming the amount of people was? But in the end, the discomfort usually lessens as the night goes on because your comfort isn't even important at the time. You sacrifice comfort because that social relationship is more important to you at that time.
These are just a few examples, but it's not hard to think about many more that are applicable to your personal life. In every case, the social interaction and development are more important than that which is sacrificed and with this sacrifice, the relationship grows. Now, the above examples assume that a sacrifice is made. Surely, there are times when a person isn't willing to make a sacrifice. It is at these times that social sacrifice is most important. One person isn't willing to sacrifice but the others in the group are and everything works out. Relationships will fail when both parties refuse to make sacrifices of a particular context. I believe that there is a correlation between social sacrifice and strength of a social relationship. Sacrificing for another proves loyalty and dedication to the friendship and I think this has a huge effect on whether or not a relationship will last.

Obviously, the amount of sacrifices are different for different types of relationships. You want to make sacrifices for your soccer coach, but you probably want to make more for your best friend. Furthermore, in a romantic relationship you have to be willing to sacrifice much more in order to create a lasting relationship.

Similarly, I originally thought that sacrifice and happiness had a positive correlation. After dwelling on it a little more, I think that happiness and sacrifice are related but I don't necessarily believe that the more you sacrifice, the happier you are. If you are willing to give up everything, it's almost impossible to not be walked on. However, I think that willingness to make sacrifices is important in happiness. I'd say the key is to make as many sacrifices as you can without losing sight of your goals and without putting yourself or anyone else in danger. I also believe that this holds true with material sacrifice (i.e. Sacrificing as many possessions as you can without losing sight of your goals and without putting yourself or anyone else in danger can make you happier), but that's another [blog post](/thoughts-on-minimalism).

There is one more note I want to make about sacrifices and that is on sacrifice and mob mentality. When you belong to a group, the willingness to make sacrifices shoots through the roof. I have no idea what the implications for this are as this is just an observation, but I do find it particularly interesting. This is best described with examples:

- The military. I think the military is one of the biggest groups where sacrifice is obvious. These guys give up huge portions of their lives to train and then after they've sacrificed that, they go out in the field, knowing that there is a possibility that they might sacrifice their lives.

- Religion. I'm not going to go too deep into this one because I think that sacrifices made through religion are obvious. These sacrifices are made to fulfill a positive relationship with some God. This is extremely important, mostly because of the role this relationship plays in determining eternal fate.

- Teams of any kind. If you are on a team, all of the sudden the team's success is the most important thing. To see the team succeed is to see yourself succeed. If you've ever been on a team, you know the feeling of complete willingness to do whatever it takes to pull the win.

To summarize a bit, making sacrifices is important to creating and maintaining social relationships. I'm all for individualism and being yourself, but you can't bash conformity too much when its effects are so powerful. Making sacrifices to be a part of a group is something that seemed so silly to me before, but now it's so easy to see why that might be worth it for some people. There are more important things in those people's lives than what they are sacrificing. I think that's the most important lesson I learned from this epiphany. It's easy to judge people for things they give up. "Well, you're missing out on smoking and drinking" or "Why save sex for marriage?" or "You're really giving 8 years of your life to the military, dude?" or even "You're spending 80k on a college degree in golf management?" None of these questions are helpful. They put others down when there is really no need to do so. When a sacrifice is made, it is usually just means that something else is more important to that person and that's okay. Of course your intent is curiosity and not putting them down, by all means let them know. I always enjoy hearing other's perspectives, especially if they are different than my own and usually people are receptive to sharing why they are making certain sacrifices if you just ask them.
