---
layout: post
title: Perspective
date: 2012-06-21 22:17
author: bfannin13
tags: [insight, journey, perspective]
---
Perspective is a funny thing. And it's something that I've grown to be pretty passionate about over the course of this year. I think it all started with a realization that the job of a business major or of an artist is no better or worse than the job of an engineer. In college, specifically the engineering department, you hear a lot of people saying calling business majors dumb or lazy. This is when I realized that it's all about how you see it. From the business major's point of view, they probably seem themselves doing something noble and following the the path that they see fit. There is no better or worse majors. Actually, I think that you can generalize that and say that there is no this or that. There just is.

My curiosity about perspective drove me to crave other's perspectives. Sure, I may love math or science and not so much business, but why do people that love business love business? What is it about photography that drives a photographer? Why does the artist paint despite knowing that it's not a lucrative career? These are all extremely interesting questions to me and I think without considering these questions, we are nothing but closed minded individuals. There is a reasoning behind every choice that someone makes and I think that it is both interesting to try and see into that reasoning and to respect and try and understand the decisions that someone made.

So, in search for getting perspectives from people, I emailed the Arts and Sciences department at Ohio State in search of some sort of general mailing list of professors. I figured that professors are at the top of their field. They know so much and would easily be able to help me on my quest to understand people's perspectives. Alas, they couldn't give me the emails of all of the professors in the department. I sat on the idea for a couple months. In this time, I started expanding my own perspective on things. I made long walks downtown just so that I could acknowledge the little things that I would miss while driving by. I started to realize that there is so much more to this world than we think. You can find beauty in some of the most peculiar and unsuspecting places. Upon coming to that realization, I had the thought that if you could find beauty in places that you don't expect maybe you can find insightful perspectives on life in places that you don't expect.

It become evident to me that anyone could give insightful information. There are 7 billion people on this planet. Every single one of them has their own story. Though some perspectives may resemble each other due to cultural differences, no two people see the world the same. Insight is even more unique than the fingerprint. That's an amazing thing. I realized that I could learn something from any of the 7 billion old enough to talk. And so my journey began.

I decided to harmlessly post a request on the internet. The post was titled "This might seem like a weird proposition but..." and I explained my desire to find insight from everyday people. I figured if the post was a dud, no harm done, but if people responded positively I could have an extremely interesting and content-rich project on my hands. Fortunately, the latter of the two options won out. People responded extremely positively. I had 41 people interested right off the bat and 10-15 people sign up to have meetings pretty early on. It was extremely exciting. I started meeting with people and I quickly formed an idea of what this project was going to become. It is truly a Perspective Movement and I'm exciting to see where it goes from here.

At the tail end of last week, I worked to create a blog page and start to write up some posts. Right now, there are only 4 posts but I have three more posts currently in the queue and I have more people to meet with. I'm hoping to reach out to some more people in Columbus and to get somewhere around 50 new perspectives by the end of the summer.
