---
title: On Taking the Semester Off - My teacher talked me into it
tags:
  - school
  - existentialism
---
I came to college Fall 2011. After a couple of weeks, I realized that it was nothing like I expected it to be and in short, I hated it. I was learning nothing and being forced into taking classes which held absolutely zero value to life in the real world. My AP teachers in high school had prepared me for this cruel, terrible world where homework takes up 90% of your free time and tests were impossible. At least at Ohio State, that is far from how things really are.

Because I didn't expect to hate it, I had never imagined a life where maybe I didn't go to college. I started to enter a minor existential crisis. I didn't understand what was important or what I really wanted. If school was not satisfying my curiosity, what would? I didn't understand my purpose on this planet if not an engineer because I'd never considered a life where I wasn't an engineer or scientist of some sort. My resent for academia made me start to want to drop out, but I didn't know what I would do if I wasn't in school. Because of this, I decided to go to career fairs and talk myself into a couple of internships to get a break from school and hopefully give me some time to figure things out.

Now, after 7 months of not going to school, I'm back on campus and I still haven't figured things out. Campus is a little different than how I left it. The old construction projects are finished and many more have started in equally inconvenient locations. Things are a little more crowded, a little uglier. In addition to physical differences on campus, the way that I perceive campus has changed drastically. For the past 7 months, I've been spending the majority of my life interacting with grown adults with families and kids and real jobs. Now that I'm back on campus, I feel very out of place. College kids are adults, but they really aren't. I feel more uncomfortable than ever and I don't feel like I fit in here at all. Call it culture shock, call it what you will, but the bottom line is that I don't like this lifestyle.

Despite my moderate resent towards being a college student again, I had figured I would stick with it. After all, I'm taking some exploratory type classes that will hopefully help me figure out who I am and what I want to become. After only two Existentialism classes, my opinion on staying in school has drastically changed.

My existentialism professor gets it. She knows what is important in life and she is quick to preach non-conformity and being true to yourself and your true desires. She's told us that the roots of existentialism are in being an "authentic" individual which basically means not being influenced by what others think you should do or think, but rather just do and think what you truly feel. In less than two hours, this professor has made me realize that I'm not being authentic. I'm lying to myself because I'm scared. School is such a comforting thought. It makes sense. It's easy. You graduate and you have a job and you can afford to live and pay off your debts. But is that what life is really about? I don't want that life. Since Fall 2011, I've been constantly making excuses for why I should not take a semester off. I've been letting others influence my decision when what I really need to do is figure myself out.

I thought that taking some interesting and diverse classes might help me with my identity issues, but through my professor's lectures I've realized that you can never figure yourself out by hearing someone else's thoughts and opinions. In order to figure out who I am and what I want to become, I need to ask myself not ask a teacher. Self reflection is the only way we can truly get to know ourselves and that's why I'm taking a semester off of school. A semester to work a shitty job, write, read, and think a lot should do me good and I'm not worried about what I'll be one day because at least I'll be myself.
